README.md, before:

<!--

********************************************************************************

WARNING:

    DO NOT EDIT "httpd/README.md"

    IT IS AUTO-GENERATED

    (from the other files in "httpd/" combined with a set of templates)

********************************************************************************

-->

# Supported tags and respective `Dockerfile` links

-	[`2.4.28`, `2.4`, `2`, `latest` (*2.4/Dockerfile*)](https://github.com/docker-library/httpd/blob/5b3b87b10907617b0d69af4308ae1dfa21ccf703/2.4/Dockerfile)
-	[`2.4.28-alpine`, `2.4-alpine`, `2-alpine`, `alpine` (*2.4/alpine/Dockerfile*)](https://github.com/docker-library/httpd/blob/5b3b87b10907617b0d69af4308ae1dfa21ccf703/2.4/alpine/Dockerfile)

# What is httpd?

The Apache HTTP Server, colloquially called Apache, is a Web server application notable for playing a key role in the initial growth of the World Wide Web. Originally based on the NCSA HTTPd server, development of Apache began in early 1995 after work on the NCSA code stalled. Apache quickly overtook NCSA HTTPd as the dominant HTTP server, and has remained the most popular HTTP server in use since April 1996.

> [wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_HTTP_Server](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_HTTP_Server)

![logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/docker-library/docs/8e367edd887f5fe876890a0ab4d08806527a1571/httpd/logo.png)

# How to use this image.

This image only contains Apache httpd with the defaults from upstream. There is no PHP installed, but it should not be hard to extend. On the other hand, if you just want PHP with Apache httpd see the [PHP image](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/php/) and look at the `-apache` tags. If you want to run a simple HTML server, add a simple Dockerfile to your project where `public-html/` is the directory containing all your HTML.

### Create a `Dockerfile` in your project

```dockerfile
FROM manios/httpd:2.4
COPY ./public-html/ /usr/local/apache2/htdocs/
```

Then, run the commands to build and run the Docker image:

```console
$ docker build -t my-apache2 .
$ docker run -dit --name my-running-app my-apache2
```

### Without a `Dockerfile`

If you don't want to include a `Dockerfile` in your project, it is sufficient to do the following:

```console
$ docker run -dit --name my-apache-app -p 8080:80 -v "$PWD":/usr/local/apache2/htdocs/ manios/httpd:2.4
```

### Configuration

To customize the configuration of the httpd server, just `COPY` your custom configuration in as `/usr/local/apache2/conf/httpd.conf`.

```dockerfile
FROM manios/httpd:2.4
COPY ./my-httpd.conf /usr/local/apache2/conf/httpd.conf
```

#### SSL/HTTPS

If you want to run your web traffic over SSL, the simplest setup is to `COPY` or mount (`-v`) your `server.crt` and `server.key` into `/usr/local/apache2/conf/` and then customize the `/usr/local/apache2/conf/httpd.conf` by removing the comment from the line with `#Include conf/extra/httpd-ssl.conf`. This config file will use the certificate files previously added and tell the daemon to also listen on port 443. Be sure to also add something like `-p 443:443` to your `docker run` to forward the https port.

The previous steps should work well for development, but we recommend customizing your conf files for production, see [httpd.apache.org](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/ssl/ssl_faq.html) for more information about SSL setup.

# Image Variants

The `httpd` images come in many flavors, each designed for a specific use case.

## `httpd:<version>`

This is the defacto image. If you are unsure about what your needs are, you probably want to use this one. It is designed to be used both as a throw away container (mount your source code and start the container to start your app), as well as the base to build other images off of.

## `httpd:alpine`

This image is based on the popular [Alpine Linux project](http://alpinelinux.org), available in [the `alpine` official image](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine). Alpine Linux is much smaller than most distribution base images (~5MB), and thus leads to much slimmer images in general.

This variant is highly recommended when final image size being as small as possible is desired. The main caveat to note is that it does use [musl libc](http://www.musl-libc.org) instead of [glibc and friends](http://www.etalabs.net/compare_libcs.html), so certain software might run into issues depending on the depth of their libc requirements. However, most software doesn't have an issue with this, so this variant is usually a very safe choice. See [this Hacker News comment thread](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=10782897) for more discussion of the issues that might arise and some pro/con comparisons of using Alpine-based images.

To minimize image size, it's uncommon for additional related tools (such as `git` or `bash`) to be included in Alpine-based images. Using this image as a base, add the things you need in your own Dockerfile (see the [`alpine` image description](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine/) for examples of how to install packages if you are unfamiliar).

# License

View [license information](https://www.apache.org/licenses/) for the software contained in this image.

Commit message:

Update readme with 2.4.8 image enhancements

README.md, after:

<!--

********************************************************************************

WARNING:

    DO NOT EDIT "httpd/README.md"

    IT IS AUTO-GENERATED

    (from the other files in "httpd/" combined with a set of templates)

********************************************************************************

-->

Based on commit [7b2fe2c](https://github.com/docker-library/httpd/tree/0db1d55dbc9224c7256946c872dcaaf7e9308132/2.4) of official Httpd image version 2.4.8. It enhances the image by adding the ability to copy initial configuration files to `/usr/local/apache2/conf` directory when the container is run with a volume of ```conf``` directory mounted on host using ```-v```.

# Supported tags and respective `Dockerfile` links

-	[`2.4.28`, `2.4`, `2`, `latest` (*2.4/Dockerfile*)](https://github.com/manios/httpd-docker/blob/4d87760918f292621b8ed7994f265d3fc9aa834d/2.4/Dockerfile)
-	[`2.4.28-alpine`, `2.4-alpine`, `2-alpine`, `alpine` (*2.4/alpine/Dockerfile*)](https://github.com/manios/httpd-docker/blob/4d87760918f292621b8ed7994f265d3fc9aa834d/2.4/alpine/Dockerfile)

# What is httpd?

The Apache HTTP Server, colloquially called Apache, is a Web server application notable for playing a key role in the initial growth of the World Wide Web. Originally based on the NCSA HTTPd server, development of Apache began in early 1995 after work on the NCSA code stalled. Apache quickly overtook NCSA HTTPd as the dominant HTTP server, and has remained the most popular HTTP server in use since April 1996.

> [wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_HTTP_Server](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apache_HTTP_Server)

![logo](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/docker-library/docs/8e367edd887f5fe876890a0ab4d08806527a1571/httpd/logo.png)

# How to use this image.

This image only contains Apache httpd with the defaults from upstream. There is no PHP installed, but it should not be hard to extend. On the other hand, if you just want PHP with Apache httpd see the [PHP image](https://registry.hub.docker.com/_/php/) and look at the `-apache` tags. If you want to run a simple HTML server, add a simple Dockerfile to your project where `public-html/` is the directory containing all your HTML.

### Create a `Dockerfile` in your project

```dockerfile
FROM manios/httpd:2.4
COPY ./public-html/ /usr/local/apache2/htdocs/
```

Then, run the commands to build and run the Docker image:

```console
$ docker build -t my-apache2 .
$ docker run -dit --name my-running-app my-apache2
```

### Without a `Dockerfile`

If you don't want to include a `Dockerfile` in your project, it is sufficient to do the following:

```console
$ docker run -dit --name my-apache-app -p 8080:80 -v "$PWD":/usr/local/apache2/htdocs/ manios/httpd:2.4
```

### Configuration

To customize the configuration of the httpd server, just `COPY` your custom configuration in as `/usr/local/apache2/conf/httpd.conf`.

```dockerfile
FROM manios/httpd:2.4
COPY ./my-httpd.conf /usr/local/apache2/conf/httpd.conf
```

#### SSL/HTTPS

If you want to run your web traffic over SSL, the simplest setup is to `COPY` or mount (`-v`) your `server.crt` and `server.key` into `/usr/local/apache2/conf/` and then customize the `/usr/local/apache2/conf/httpd.conf` by removing the comment from the line with `#Include conf/extra/httpd-ssl.conf`. This config file will use the certificate files previously added and tell the daemon to also listen on port 443. Be sure to also add something like `-p 443:443` to your `docker run` to forward the https port.

The previous steps should work well for development, but we recommend customizing your conf files for production, see [httpd.apache.org](https://httpd.apache.org/docs/2.2/ssl/ssl_faq.html) for more information about SSL setup.

# Image Variants

The `httpd` images come in many flavors, each designed for a specific use case.

## `httpd:<version>`

This is the defacto image. If you are unsure about what your needs are, you probably want to use this one. It is designed to be used both as a throw away container (mount your source code and start the container to start your app), as well as the base to build other images off of.

## `httpd:alpine`

This image is based on the popular [Alpine Linux project](http://alpinelinux.org), available in [the `alpine` official image](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine). Alpine Linux is much smaller than most distribution base images (~5MB), and thus leads to much slimmer images in general.

This variant is highly recommended when final image size being as small as possible is desired. The main caveat to note is that it does use [musl libc](http://www.musl-libc.org) instead of [glibc and friends](http://www.etalabs.net/compare_libcs.html), so certain software might run into issues depending on the depth of their libc requirements. However, most software doesn't have an issue with this, so this variant is usually a very safe choice. See [this Hacker News comment thread](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=10782897) for more discussion of the issues that might arise and some pro/con comparisons of using Alpine-based images.

To minimize image size, it's uncommon for additional related tools (such as `git` or `bash`) to be included in Alpine-based images. Using this image as a base, add the things you need in your own Dockerfile (see the [`alpine` image description](https://hub.docker.com/_/alpine/) for examples of how to install packages if you are unfamiliar).

# License

View [license information](https://www.apache.org/licenses/) for the software contained in this image.
